---
title: "My OSCP journey"
date: 2025-06-08                  
categories:
  - blog                          
tags:
  - offsec
  - oscp
layout: single
excerpt: "Lessons, failures, and practical tips."
author_profile: true
---

## My Thoughts

I’ve held the OSCP for a year now, but I failed before I made progress and passed.  
This post isn’t another exam-format recap—OffSec already covers that.  
Instead, here’s  what I changed between fail and pass, plus the resources that still sit at the top of my bookmarks bar.
<!--more-->

When I first started working on the OSCP course I was doing basic work with pentesting such as enumerating and was excited to get this exam and certification done and out of the way. It was my long-term goal since I started cyber back in 2019. Pentesting is what made me fall in love with cyber to begin with. I grew up watching movies like Hackers and have always been fascinated by hacking. I tried pushing through the course as quickly as possible thinking I could remember everything.... I WAS WRONG!!
{: .small }  

I learned the hard way that the OSCP course was there for one thing, to learn and understand how to create a methodology and how to pivot when things don't go your way. That to me is why the OSCP course is there. You need to learn on a deeper level as to why and how things work in order to break through them. I see many posts on reddit stating that what people have seen wasn't in the course. I know I first felt this way when I failed the exam. I took a step back and objectively looked at my methodology and my notes and realized it wasn't up to par. I took some time to curate better notes that I can go back and look through and actually use properly.
{: .small }  

## What Helped Me

<small>I reworked boxes and built out a methodology that I can use until it became second nature. Guess what? IT WORKED! Till this day I still review my notes and methodology and change or add when necessary! I treat it as an organic document and add/change portions of it when necessary. I finally got it through my head that looking at write-ups wasn't a bad thing. I alawys tell people you don't know what you don't know. There is a caveat with this though, if you are stuck and have been stuck its fine with looking at a write-up as long as you are actually reading it and learning from it. Many people seem to just run the same commands as the write-up without understanding how the person got their and why it works. Like anything else use it as a tool not a crutch! For many of us this is the first time we are taking an exam in this format. Many of us were use to CompTIA style exams. Practice time management with OSCP A, B, and C labs for the exam that is why they are there. </small>

## Tips
<small> I recommend learning how to manually enumerate as you are going through the course work, and when you start prepping for the exam to use autorecon. I would also recommend splitting your terminal and opening up a local python server where your autorecon folder is at so you can just view it through the web ( makes this A LOT easier). OSCP isn't a race, its about you learning and being engaged with the material, tools, and output. Create your own template and work through it while you're hacking these boxes. This was the one thing that made my life easier was creating a template where i can put my notes in. They are everywhere online, but mold it to how you work through these boxes. I promise it it makes things easier.

READ
READ   
READ!! 

<small>I understand the frustration of trying to get everything done within 24 hours, but you HAVE to be able to read through the output or you may miss something important. Learn to connect the dots with the information you have in order to find an entry point. Understand why the information is presented to you. Time management for the exam is important, but whats even more important is keeping yourself as calm as possible and not having a meltdown. It's definitely easier said than done, but with practice I know you can do it.</small> 

## Resources

### Reference Notes
- ([HDKS Exploitation Notes](https://exploit-notes.hdks.org/))
- ([Juggernaut-Sec Priv Esc](https://juggernaut-sec.com/))
- ([GTFOBINS!](https://gtfobins.github.io))
- ([Hacktricks](https://book.hacktricks.wiki/en/index.html))
- ([Hacking Articles](https://www.hackingarticles.in/penetration-testing/))


<small>There are a bunch of reference notes on github for OSCP. I just wanted to give you a few specifically for priv esc that really made a difference for me. These are great as a secondary set for priv esc.</small>

### Tools
- ([Autorecon](https://github.com/Tib3rius/AutoRecon))
<small> Tibs, thank you for this tool!</small>  
- ([Penelope Shell Handler](https://github.com/brightio/penelope))
<small>I personally like penelope over netcat due to the fact it auto tty for you so you don't need a secondary set of commands.</small>  
- ([ligolo-ng](https://github.com/nicocha30/ligolo-ng))
<small>people have a love/hate relationship with ligolo but once you have it down you won't go back to anything else. </small>  


